---
title: 00. The concept of Copy-on-Write
date: 2023-11-07 14:30:00
categories: 
- [Swift, 00. Fundamental Concepts]
tags:
- Copy-on-Write
---

<font color=gray size=2>*It will take about 1 minutes to finish reading this article.*</font>

Swift's Copy-on-Write (COW) is an optimization strategy used to reduce memory overhead when dealing with complex data types such as arrays and dictionaries. It avoids unnecessary data copying by deferring the copy until an object needs to be modified. This strategy reduces unnecessary memory consumption and improves performance, especially when handling large data structures.

In Swift, when a copy operation is performed on an array, dictionary, or similar complex data structure, the entire data is not immediately copied. Instead, the reference count of the original data is incremented. The actual copy operation is only performed when the data is modified (write operation), ensuring that the original and new data remain independent of each other after the modification. This approach saves memory and ensures that multiple references sharing the same data structure do not inadvertently modify each other's data.


Using the Copy-on-Write mechanism helps to avoid unnecessary data copying, improve performance, and reduce memory overhead, especially when dealing with large data structures. This allows Swift's arrays, dictionaries, and other complex data types to share the same data structure in multiple places, while ensuring that the data does not interfere with each other in different contexts.