---
title: 02. The Access Control Keywords
date: 2023-11-07 15:50:00
categories: 
- [Swift, 00. Fundamental Concepts]
tags:
- open
- public
- internal
- fileprivate
- private
---

<font color=gray size=2>*It will take about 1 minutes to finish reading this article.*</font>

In Swift, The access control permissions are ranked in strictness from high to low as follows:

1. `open`: It is used to declare classes that can be inherited by other modules, and the methods within the class can be overridden by subclasses. In addition to having all the features of the `public` access level, `open` allows other modules to inherit the class and override its methods.

   ```swift
   open class MyOpenClass {
       open func myOpenMethod() {
           // Method implementation
       }
   }
   ```

Therefore, the main difference is that `open` allows other modules to inherit and override methods in the class, while `public` only allows access but not inheritance or overriding. Generally, it is advisable to use stricter access levels to enhance code security and stability.

2. `public`: It is used to declare entities (classes, methods, properties, etc.) that can be accessed from any module but cannot be inherited or overridden by other modules. In other words, a `public` entity can be accessed from outside the module in which it is defined but cannot be inherited or overridden by other modules.

   ```swift
   public class MyClass {
       public var myProperty: Int = 5
       public func myMethod() {
           // Method implementation
       }
   }
   ```

Apart from `public` and `open`, Swift provides several other access control keywords to manage the access levels of different entities. These keywords include:

3. `internal`: It is used to declare entities that are visible throughout the entire module but not outside of it. This is the default access level, and if the access level is not explicitly stated, the entity will default to `internal`.

   ```swift
   internal class MyInternalClass {
       internal var myInternalProperty: Int = 5
       internal func myInternalMethod() {
           // Method implementation
       }
   }
   ```

4. `fileprivate`: It is used to declare entities that can only be accessed within the source file where they are defined, making them visible to other types or functions within the same source file.

   ```swift
   fileprivate class MyFilePrivateClass {
       fileprivate var myFilePrivateProperty: Int = 5
       fileprivate func myFilePrivateMethod() {
           // Method implementation
       }
   }
   ```

5. `private`: It is used to declare entities that can only be accessed within the enclosing declaration where they are defined, making them visible only to the enclosing block, type, or extension that contains the declaration.

   ```swift
   private class MyPrivateClass {
       private var myPrivateProperty: Int = 5
       private func myPrivateMethod() {
           // Method implementation
       }
   }
   ```

These access control keywords provide a flexible mechanism for controlling permissions, ensuring code security and module encapsulation. By selecting the appropriate access level based on the requirements and design of the code, developers can effectively manage the codebase and protect its privacy.
